# Final Draft

Introduction:
Tires are an integral component of almost any land vehicle in use today, from personal transportation to construction. This document will briefly explore the materials, 
structure, and manufacturing process of creating a tire.

Materials and Structure:
There are many materials used throughout the process. The inner layer of the tire--the modern analog of the inner tube--is made of synthetic rubber. 
The layer on top of that is called the carcass ply; it is made of textile cables bonded with rubber. This layer allows the tire to contain the great pressures it is
subject to while inflated. The lower bead area is the rubber region which grips the metal rim. This section must withstand the transfered energy of the engine and brakes.
The beads are wires which maintain an airtight fit between tire and rim, and must withstand great air pressure--up to 3,968 lbs each. Close to the outer layer is the casing ply. 
This is made of very fine steel cords bnded with rubber and is responsible for a large portion of the tire's structural integrity. Just below the surface of the tire is the cap 
ply, also known as the "zero degree" belt. This layer dissipates heat due to friction with the road, as well as preventing centrifugal stretching of the tire. It is made of nylon
cords and rubber interwoven. The outermost layer consists of the crown piles and tread, allowing the tire to grip the road and resist abrasion and heat. The sidewall is the section of the 
tire which is perpendicular to the road, protecting it from impacts from the side.

Manufacturing Process:
Tire manufacturers employ complex facilities to creat their tires. First, a mixer heats and combines the raw materials. These mixtures are then extruded through large rollers to form sheets.
Some of the sheets are bonded with textile or metal cords, as mentioned above in Materials and Structure. These sheets are the basic pieces from which the tires are 
constructed. The sheets are wrapped from the innermost to the outermost, forming the basic structure of the tire. A large press molds the tires to create their final shape,
and cures them to increase the strength of the rubber. Finally, the facility sends the tires to quality control before being sent off for distrbution.

Conclusion:
Tire manufacturing is a complex industrial process which has come a long way from simple rubber tubes filled with air. 
From design to distribution, the tire is a product of state of the art engineering, encompassing materials science, 
manufacturing engineering, and more. The process brings together many types of materials such as natural and synthetic 
rubber, carbon and silica, and metallic and textile components. The structure of the tire is multilayered, with layers of
rubber, cord, and metal interwoven. The end result is a robust device which allows a vehicle to traverse the road.

